README.md, before:

# VolumetricLights

## Info
A mod for Grand Theft Auto IV which adds fully customizable volumetric shafts to select streetlights during appropriate weather conditions.

It also features numerous fixes and improvements to the affected streetlight models.

> [!NOTE]
>
> This is a continuation of the old mod by [AssaultKifle47](https://github.com/akifle47). Kudos go to him for the base of all these changes.
>

### Options/.ini sections rundown:

### Weather toggles

The options in the [VOLUMETRICWEATHERS] section allow choosing which weathers to enable the volumetric shafts for.

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the .ini section</summary>
<br>

```ini
[VOLUMETRICWEATHERS]
ExtraSunny = 0
Sunny      = 0
SunnyWindy = 0
Cloudy     = 0
Rain       = 1
Drizzle    = 1
Foggy      = 1
Lightning  = 1
```

</details>

### Spotlight volumes

The options in the [SPOTLIGHTS] section allow customizing volume intensity and scale per-weather, for the affected spotlights.

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the .ini section</summary>
<br>

```ini
[SPOTLIGHTS]
// Threshold [0.0 | 1.5]
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityExtraSunny = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeIntensitySunny      = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeIntensitySunnyWindy = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityCloudy     = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityRain       = 1.15
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityDrizzle    = 1.1
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityFoggy      = 1.3
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityLightning  = 1.2

// Threshold [0.0 | 0.5]
SpotLightsVolumeScaleExtraSunny = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeScaleSunny      = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeScaleSunnyWindy = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeScaleCloudy     = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeScaleRain       = 0.15
SpotLightsVolumeScaleDrizzle    = 0.1
SpotLightsVolumeScaleFoggy      = 0.3
SpotLightsVolumeScaleLightning  = 0.2
```

</details>

### Pointlight volumes

The options in the [POINTLIGHTS] section allow customizing volume intensity and scale per-weather, for the affected pointlights.

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the .ini section</summary>
<br>

```ini
[POINTLIGHTS]
// Threshold [0.0 | 1.5]
PointLightsVolumeIntensityExtraSunny = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeIntensitySunny      = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeIntensitySunnyWindy = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeIntensityCloudy     = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeIntensityRain       = 1.1
PointLightsVolumeIntensityDrizzle    = 1.075
PointLightsVolumeIntensityFoggy      = 1.15
PointLightsVolumeIntensityLightning  = 1.125

// Threshold [0.0 | 0.5]
PointLightsVolumeScaleExtraSunny = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeScaleSunny      = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeScaleSunnyWindy = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeScaleCloudy     = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeScaleRain       = 0.1
PointLightsVolumeScaleDrizzle    = 0.075
PointLightsVolumeScaleFoggy      = 0.15
PointLightsVolumeScaleLightning  = 0.125
```

</details>

### Vehicle coronas

The options in the [VEHICLELIGHTS] section allow customizing corona size and intensity, for vehicle headlights and taillights.

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the .ini section</summary>
<br>

```ini
[VEHICLELIGHTS]
// Threshold [0.0 | 1.0]
HeadlightsCoronaSize       = 0.25
HeadlightsCoronaIntensity  = 0.1
TaillightsCoronaSize       = 0.25
TaillightsCoronaIntensity  = 0.1
```

</details>

Normally, casual players do not need to edit these options unless they're not enough as is.\
They are provided more for timecycle modders who will definitely need them.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Enabling FusionFix's snowy weather will disable the volumetric shafts from this mod, to avoid conflict.
>

## Compatibility

Supported game versions: 1.0.7.0 up to 1.2.0.59. Any other versions are not and are not going to be supported.

## Requirements

[FusionFix](https://github.com/ThirteenAG/GTAIV.EFLC.FusionFix) is required for the installation and for all the fixes/improvements it brings to artificial lights and volumetric shafts.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> The provided .img archive with the models in this mod is required for the volumetric shafts to work.
>
> Other mods which change the same light models as this mod would have to be made compatible.\
> FusionFix is excluded, as all the changes of its light models are pretty much already present here as well.
>

## Installation

Download the [latest release's .7z archive](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/releases/latest), open it once downloaded and copy everything from it over to your game's directory.

> [!NOTE]
>
> The mod comes with a high update folder priority already, so to try avoid conflicts with other light mods.\
> Note that it should always come before FusionFix's folder, otherwise none of the mod will work.
>

## Limitations

- Distant fading for the volumes of the affected lights does not work correctly, likely due to the way the volumes are applied, which may not be fixable.

## Screenshots

### Comparison between weathers
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_42_22 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cca2cde3-117f-4811-9312-871c37f01713" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_42_13 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5f5b8cfb-c010-4e87-a59a-6e9bbd6bf588" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_42_39 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bb68ab01-f490-4bea-8da2-6ed5a5861555" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_42_31 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19dabb6e-151b-4d3c-885f-ddcd720c53c0" />

### Transitions between weathers
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/995b60b9-ff7a-4396-a81e-0c8f02285c57

### Fixed materials
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 10_07_04 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/77798022-a2a5-4c62-99e6-dcd65f54c224" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 10_07_31 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/446b09a6-d8e5-4cea-ae92-1d6f3dcca0fb" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_38_17 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d7a12ccd-e5f1-4241-a4f6-378ea8842aa6" />

## Asset Changelog

TODO: Complete this
<details>
<summary>Click here to expand</summary>
<br>

### brownstones.img
- **shitkitch/dodgyraylight.wdr**
  - Moved the light source from shitkitch.wdr to dodgyraylight.wdr to fix its position;
  - Included the [volume properties from the console versions](https://github.com/Parallellines0451/GTAIV.EFLC.FusionShaders/blob/2d68add8f58f97e9851c59432146f3b188194646/assets/references/console_light_flags/brownstones.img/shitkitch/shitkitch.light#L10) of the game;
  - Adjusted the bulb's vertex color to that of the light's color;
  - Adjusted the bulb's emissive intensity to that of the light's intensity;

### lamppost.ide

- Draw distances of lamppost models have been made consistent (e.g. All lampposts have a distance of 150 now, while wall lights have a distance of 100);
- Fixed and improved particle effects (Primarily when shooting bulbs);

### lamppost.img

- Light source positions relative to the bulbs of the models have been improved, making the volumetric shafts and/or shadows make sense;
- All the bulbs of the lamppost models had their vertex colors adjusted to match their actual light colors;
- All lamppost models can no longer be occluded in night shadows, resolving visual weirdness when they have shadows enabled;
- Corona sizes have been lowered overall, while intensities have been made more consistent;
- Fixed materials (e.g. Bulbs now use a glass shader that allows the cracks texture to show when shot, where applicable);
- Made shadow flags consistent: All lamppost models can now cast shadows including both static geometry and dynamic objects, if allowed;

### traffic.ide
- Draw distances of traffic light models have been made consistent (e.g. All traffic lights have a distance of 150 now, while traffic lights without the RGY light have a distance of 100);
- Fixed and improved particle effects (Primarily when shooting bulbs);

### traffic.img

- Adjusted traffic light circle positions, fixing clipping;
- Nulled hidden leftover/test(?) light sources from traffic lights, that might have had a significant influence on the game's 640 light maps limit;
- All traffic light models can no longer be occluded in night shadows, resolving visual weirdness when shadows from other lights occlude them.
</details>

### To-do:

High priority:
- Improve destructibility of certain lamppost parts if viable (Such as traffic light boxes, bm_nylamp7 lamps, etc);

Mid priority:
- Fix/Improve more models;
- Add cubemaps to as many bulbs as possible;
- Add a Project2DFX config with adjusted light positions for the coronas;

Lower priority:
- Adjust WalkDontWalk signal texture offsets;
- Investigate bm_nytraflite2b and bm_nytrafflite_11 yellow traffic light circle bug;
- Make bm_nylamp1c and bm_nylamp6c ped signal boxes [functional](https://github.com/valentyn-l/GTAIV.EFLC.Various.Fixes#pedestrian-traffic-lights) without bugs [#1](https://tsmsportz.com/postimg/14VZRdqp), if even at all possible.

## Credits:

- [UnknownLITE](https://github.com/UnknownLITE), for his Blender Add-On that helped make all the models' work possible;

- [FusionFix](https://github.com/ThirteenAG/GTAIV.EFLC.FusionFix):
  - For the more straightforward and compatible hooks ([#1](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/blob/dcd210c1a5aa9ca4207de41d0edac5f2ef9f092b/source/Main.cpp#L145), [#2](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/blob/dcd210c1a5aa9ca4207de41d0edac5f2ef9f092b/source/Main.cpp#L242), [#3](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/blob/dcd210c1a5aa9ca4207de41d0edac5f2ef9f092b/source/Utility.h#L12), [#4](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/blob/dcd210c1a5aa9ca4207de41d0edac5f2ef9f092b/source/rage/Weather.h#L25)) - All of this code is licensed under GPL v3, rest is MIT licensed, as the original mod;
  - For the emissive materials trick which allows disabling night shadows on certain objects ([#1](https://gtaforums.com/topic/934545-fusion-fix/?do=findComment&comment=1072386201), [#2](https://gtaforums.com/topic/934545-fusion-fix/?do=findComment&comment=1072386316)).

## Reporting issues

Encountered a problem caused by this mod? Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/issues).

Encountered a light model in the game that could use touch-ups or volumetric shafts?\
Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/issues) showing it + the location it's at in the game world.

Commit message:

Add WIP code for possible new features
Will be doing more on this in the future, in the meantime all of this will remain commented.

What will probably end up in the mod eventually are dual vehicle lights, thanks to xoxor4d (https://github.com/xoxor4d) for all of it pretty much.

README.md, after:

# VolumetricLights

## Info
A mod for Grand Theft Auto IV which adds fully customizable volumetric shafts to select streetlights during appropriate weather conditions.

It also features numerous fixes and improvements to the affected streetlight models.

> [!NOTE]
>
> This is a continuation of the old mod by [AssaultKifle47](https://github.com/akifle47). Kudos go to him for the base of all these changes.
>

### Options/.ini sections rundown:

### Weather toggles

The options in the [VOLUMETRICWEATHERS] section allow choosing which weathers to enable the volumetric shafts for.

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the .ini section</summary>
<br>

```ini
[VOLUMETRICWEATHERS]
ExtraSunny = 0
Sunny      = 0
SunnyWindy = 0
Cloudy     = 0
Rain       = 1
Drizzle    = 1
Foggy      = 1
Lightning  = 1
```

</details>

### Spotlight volumes

The options in the [SPOTLIGHTS] section allow customizing volume intensity and scale per-weather, for the affected spotlights.

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the .ini section</summary>
<br>

```ini
[SPOTLIGHTS]
// Threshold [0.0 | 1.5]
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityExtraSunny = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeIntensitySunny      = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeIntensitySunnyWindy = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityCloudy     = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityRain       = 1.15
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityDrizzle    = 1.1
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityFoggy      = 1.3
SpotLightsVolumeIntensityLightning  = 1.2

// Threshold [0.0 | 0.5]
SpotLightsVolumeScaleExtraSunny = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeScaleSunny      = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeScaleSunnyWindy = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeScaleCloudy     = 0.0
SpotLightsVolumeScaleRain       = 0.15
SpotLightsVolumeScaleDrizzle    = 0.1
SpotLightsVolumeScaleFoggy      = 0.3
SpotLightsVolumeScaleLightning  = 0.2
```

</details>

### Pointlight volumes

The options in the [POINTLIGHTS] section allow customizing volume intensity and scale per-weather, for the affected pointlights.

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the .ini section</summary>
<br>

```ini
[POINTLIGHTS]
// Threshold [0.0 | 1.5]
PointLightsVolumeIntensityExtraSunny = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeIntensitySunny      = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeIntensitySunnyWindy = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeIntensityCloudy     = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeIntensityRain       = 1.1
PointLightsVolumeIntensityDrizzle    = 1.075
PointLightsVolumeIntensityFoggy      = 1.15
PointLightsVolumeIntensityLightning  = 1.125

// Threshold [0.0 | 0.5]
PointLightsVolumeScaleExtraSunny = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeScaleSunny      = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeScaleSunnyWindy = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeScaleCloudy     = 0.0
PointLightsVolumeScaleRain       = 0.1
PointLightsVolumeScaleDrizzle    = 0.075
PointLightsVolumeScaleFoggy      = 0.15
PointLightsVolumeScaleLightning  = 0.125
```

</details>

### Vehicle coronas

The options in the [VEHICLELIGHTS] section allow customizing corona size and intensity, for vehicle headlights and taillights.

<details>
<summary>Click here to see the .ini section</summary>
<br>

```ini
[VEHICLELIGHTS]
// Threshold [0.0 | 1.0]
HeadlightsCoronaSize       = 0.25
HeadlightsCoronaIntensity  = 0.1
TaillightsCoronaSize       = 0.25
TaillightsCoronaIntensity  = 0.1
```

</details>

Normally, casual players do not need to edit these options unless they're not enough as is.\
They are provided more for timecycle modders who will definitely need them.

> [!NOTE]
>
> Starting from the next update, enabling FusionFix's snowy weather will disable the volumetric shafts from this mod, to avoid conflict.
> FusionFix's snow volumetric shafts now use similar logic as this mod, so you won't lose much of anything, apart from getting the volumetric shafts on some unintended light models as well.
>

## Compatibility

Supported game versions: 1.0.7.0 up to 1.2.0.59. Any other versions are not supported.

## Requirements

[FusionFix](https://github.com/ThirteenAG/GTAIV.EFLC.FusionFix) is required for the installation and for all the fixes/improvements it brings to artificial lights and volumetric shafts.

> [!IMPORTANT]
>
> The provided .img archive with the models in this mod is required for the volumetric shafts to work.
>
> Other mods which change the same light models as this mod would have to be made compatible.\
> FusionFix is excluded, as all the changes of its light models are pretty much already present here as well.
>

## Installation

Download the [latest release's .7z archive](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/releases/latest), open it once downloaded and copy everything from it over to your game's directory.

> [!NOTE]
>
> The mod comes with a high update folder priority already, so to try avoid conflicts with other light mods.\
> Note that it should always come before FusionFix's folder, otherwise none of the mod will work.
>

## Limitations

- Distant fading for the volumes of the affected lights does not work correctly, likely due to the way the volumes are applied, which may not be fixable.

## Screenshots

### Comparison between weathers
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_42_22 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/cca2cde3-117f-4811-9312-871c37f01713" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_42_13 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/5f5b8cfb-c010-4e87-a59a-6e9bbd6bf588" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_42_39 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/bb68ab01-f490-4bea-8da2-6ed5a5861555" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_42_31 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/19dabb6e-151b-4d3c-885f-ddcd720c53c0" />

### Transitions between weathers
https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/995b60b9-ff7a-4396-a81e-0c8f02285c57

### Fixed materials
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 10_07_04 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/77798022-a2a5-4c62-99e6-dcd65f54c224" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 10_07_31 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/446b09a6-d8e5-4cea-ae92-1d6f3dcca0fb" />
<img width="2560" height="1440" alt="GTAIV 9_25_2025 8_38_17 PM" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d7a12ccd-e5f1-4241-a4f6-378ea8842aa6" />

## Asset Changelog

TODO: Complete this
<details>
<summary>Click here to expand</summary>
<br>

### brownstones.img
- **shitkitch/dodgyraylight.wdr**
  - Moved the light source from shitkitch.wdr to dodgyraylight.wdr to fix its position;
  - Included the [volume properties from the console versions](https://github.com/Parallellines0451/GTAIV.EFLC.FusionShaders/blob/2d68add8f58f97e9851c59432146f3b188194646/assets/references/console_light_flags/brownstones.img/shitkitch/shitkitch.light#L10) of the game;
  - Adjusted the bulb's vertex color to that of the light's color;
  - Adjusted the bulb's emissive intensity to that of the light's intensity;

### lamppost.ide

- Draw distances of lamppost models have been made consistent (e.g. All lampposts have a distance of 150 now, while wall lights have a distance of 100);
- Fixed and improved particle effects (Primarily when shooting bulbs);

### lamppost.img

- Light source positions relative to the bulbs of the models have been improved, making the volumetric shafts and/or shadows make sense;
- All the bulbs of the lamppost models had their vertex colors adjusted to match their actual light colors;
- All lamppost models can no longer be occluded in night shadows, resolving visual weirdness when they have shadows enabled;
- Corona sizes have been lowered overall, while intensities have been made more consistent;
- Fixed materials (e.g. Bulbs now use a glass shader that allows the cracks texture to show when shot, where applicable);
- Made shadow flags consistent: All lamppost models can now cast shadows including both static geometry and dynamic objects, if allowed;

### traffic.ide
- Draw distances of traffic light models have been made consistent (e.g. All traffic lights have a distance of 150 now, while traffic lights without the RGY light have a distance of 100);
- Fixed and improved particle effects (Primarily when shooting bulbs);

### traffic.img

- Adjusted traffic light circle positions, fixing clipping;
- Nulled hidden leftover/test(?) light sources from traffic lights, that might have had a significant influence on the game's 640 light maps limit;
- All traffic light models can no longer be occluded in night shadows, resolving visual weirdness when shadows from other lights occlude them.
</details>

### To-do:

High priority:
- Improve destructibility of certain lamppost parts if viable (Such as traffic light boxes, bm_nylamp7 lamps, etc);

Mid priority:
- Fix/Improve more models;
- Add cubemaps to as many bulbs as possible;
- Add a Project2DFX config with adjusted light positions for the coronas;

Lower priority:
- Adjust WalkDontWalk signal texture offsets;
- Investigate bm_nytraflite2b and bm_nytrafflite_11 yellow traffic light circle bug;
- Make bm_nylamp1c and bm_nylamp6c ped signal boxes [functional](https://github.com/valentyn-l/GTAIV.EFLC.Various.Fixes#pedestrian-traffic-lights) without bugs [#1](https://tsmsportz.com/postimg/14VZRdqp), if even at all possible.

## Credits:

- [UnknownLITE](https://github.com/UnknownLITE), for his Blender Add-On that helped make all the models' work possible;

- [FusionFix](https://github.com/ThirteenAG/GTAIV.EFLC.FusionFix):
  - For the more straightforward and compatible hooks ([#1](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/blob/dcd210c1a5aa9ca4207de41d0edac5f2ef9f092b/source/Main.cpp#L145), [#2](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/blob/dcd210c1a5aa9ca4207de41d0edac5f2ef9f092b/source/Main.cpp#L242), [#3](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/blob/dcd210c1a5aa9ca4207de41d0edac5f2ef9f092b/source/Utility.h#L12), [#4](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/blob/dcd210c1a5aa9ca4207de41d0edac5f2ef9f092b/source/rage/Weather.h#L25)) - All of this code is licensed under GPL v3, rest is MIT licensed, as the original mod;
  - For the emissive materials trick which allows disabling night shadows on certain objects ([#1](https://gtaforums.com/topic/934545-fusion-fix/?do=findComment&comment=1072386201), [#2](https://gtaforums.com/topic/934545-fusion-fix/?do=findComment&comment=1072386316)).

## Reporting issues

Encountered a problem caused by this mod? Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/issues).

Encountered a light model in the game that could use touch-ups or volumetric shafts?\
Feel free to [open an issue](https://github.com/RecklessGlue540/VolumetricLights/issues) showing it + the location it's at in the game world.
